# HAN-Smart-Electric-Charging-Station.
# 1.1	Background.
From 2013-2018  project CSGrip has been executed by project partners Alfen, TU Delft, Han, Alliander, WES and Bredenoord. In this project an energy container from Alfen is used to create an island grid. This energy container contains inverters and batteries to supply the electrical power for this electricity grid. One specific tasks of the energy container is to try to make a match between the generated electricity and the consumed electricity at any moment. One option for this would be to regulate down renewable energy sources. This energy is then lost (or not generated), which is not preferable. Another option is to use controllable generation, such as a diesel generator set. This is often also a non-preferable option, when the energy container is used in places with low availability (high prices / remote location) of diesel fuel or for sustainability reasons. The last option is to control the consumption. Controllable consumption is only used rarely. In order to test the energy container with controllable consumption a controllable EV charger was created in the CS Grip project. With this charger the charging of an electric car becomes controllable. It becomes possible to charge more in times when a lot of electricity is generated, or less when electricity is scarce.
# 1.2	About this document.
The HAN Smart Electric Charging Station is the follow up or an upgrade version of the EV Charger that was bulit in CSGrip project. On this document the basics of electric vehicle charging process is explained. We are also discuss the software on the Olimex microcontroller and Particle microcontroller respectively. More detail can be read in the Student Manual.  
# 2. Basics of electric vehicle charging.
